#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass spie
\begin_preamble
%  article.tex (Version 3.3, released 19 January 2008)
%  Article to demonstrate format for SPIE Proceedings
%  Special instructions are included in this file after the
%  symbol %>>>>
%  Numerous commands are commented out, but included to show how
%  to effect various options, e.g., to print page numbers, etc.
%  This LaTeX source file is composed for LaTeX2e.

%  The following commands have been added in the SPIE class 
%  file (spie.cls) and will not be understood in other classes:
%  \supit{}, \authorinfo{}, \skiplinehalf, \keywords{}
%  The bibliography style file is called spiebib.bst, 
%  which replaces the standard style unstr.bst.  

%>>> use for US letter paper
%%\documentclass[a4paper]{spie}  %>>> use this instead for A4 paper
%%\documentclass[nocompress]{spie}  %>>> to avoid compression of citations
%% \addtolength{\voffset}{9mm}   %>>> moves text field down
%% \renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1.65}   %>>> 1.65 for double spacing, 1.25 for 1.5 spacing 
%  The following command loads a graphics package to include images 
%  in the document. It may be necessary to specify a DVI driver option,
%  e.g., [dvips], but that may be inappropriate for some LaTeX 
%  installations. 

\usepackage{multirow}
\usepackage{cite}
\usepackage{graphicx}

  
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding iso8859-1
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes true
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\author 361918700 "Mariano"
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
ECG-kit: An Online tool for Cardiovascular Signal Processing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author

\lang spanish
Alan Campora, Sebastián Torres
\lang english
 and 
\lang spanish
Mariano Llamedo Soria
\lang english

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Electronic Department
\lang spanish
, Universidad Tecnológica Nacional, Buenos Aires, Argentina
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Nowadays, cardiovascular diseases (CVD) cause most of the deaths.
 Taking data from the Health Worldwide Organization, 17.3 millions people
 have died because of CVD in 2008, therefore, advances in this area could
 improve people's life.
 Taking that into account, the proposal of this work is to develop an open
 software to analyse the input of any electrocardiogram and give as feedback,
 a detailed report and also a detailed view of the ecg signals, blood pressure
 and plethysmographic.
 Creating an open web software will give ,to any user, the chance of studying
 ecg signal without being an expert.
 Furthermore, any researcher around the world could use this application
 to compare their results with the Web Application.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted 361918700 1469124744
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 361918700 1469122653
Alan estas son notitas que no se ven en el resultado.
 Yo arrancaría con una oración más gral de la problemática, a ver qué te
 parece:
\end_layout

\end_inset

Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are in the present the first cause of death
 in the developed countries.
 Probably the biggest challenge of the modern cardiology is the sudden cardiac
 death, in several aspects related to ventricular arrhythmias.
 It is well known that the study of arrhythmias requires careful inspection
 of electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings of several hours length.
 To this respect, the asistance of automatic algorithms may represent an
 increase in the number of patients analyzed, and the quality of the variables
 derived from those ECG recordings.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_deleted 361918700 1469123827
Over the
\change_inserted 361918700 1469123835
During the last
\change_unchanged
 decades, the relation between the 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469123847
medicine
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124086
cardiology
\change_unchanged
 and 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469122527
software engineer
\change_inserted 361918700 1469123802
computer technology
\change_unchanged
 has become closer, and as long as this relation keeps evolving, 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469124094
doctors
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124097
cardiologists
\change_unchanged
, scientists and people will be benefit.
 Computers helps 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469124120
medicine
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124121
cardiology
\change_unchanged
 in different areas such as data storage, surgical procedures, knowledge
 
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124142
and diagnostic 
\change_unchanged
sharing 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469124136
and diagnostic
\change_unchanged
.
 In this case, computerized methods can help to detect cardiovascular 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469124168
issues
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124169
diseases
\change_unchanged
 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469124212
automatically
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124239
with a high degree of assistance
\change_unchanged
.
 The ECG is 
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124417
a routine and inexpensive methodology in the clinical practice.
 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469124434
the representation of the variation of the heart electrical activity over
 a period of time.
 Normally, ten electrodes are placed into the patient’s chest.
 The heart’s electrical potential is recorded over a period of time and
 measured from different angles, which gives an overall of the electrical
 depolarization throughout the cardiac cycle.
 All this process is called as an electrocardiogram.
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124451

\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 361918700 1469124464
no hace falta ese grado de detalle, es muy conocido el ECG
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_deleted 361918700 1469124434

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After the interpretation of the ECG, 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469124793
doctors
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124795
cardiologists
\change_unchanged
 can detect 
\change_inserted 361918700 1469124771
and analyze 
\change_deleted 361918700 1469124777
different cardiovascular diseases (CVD):
\change_inserted 361918700 1469125259
CVD's.
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 361918700 1469125154
no haría una enumeración así, tal vez en línea en la misma oración, ya que
 no es necesario meterse en el detalle
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 361918700 1469125280
Yo acá haría una referencia a lo que ya hemos desarrollado del ecg-kit,
 qué particularidades tiene, qué tipo de algoritmos ya tiene implementado
 y qué análisis se podrían hacer, hacé una primera versión si querés.
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\change_inserted 361918700 1469125261
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\change_inserted 361918700 1469125668
Faltaría un nexo entre lo que hay, y lo interesante que sería el objetivo
 de este trabajo, que es implementar una herramienta online.
 En el útlimo párrafo, última oración bien claro el objetivo !
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\end_inset


\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\change_deleted 361918700 1469125083
Arrhythmias: heartbeat is irregular, too fast, or too slow.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\change_deleted 361918700 1469125083
Cardiomyopathy: measurable deterioration for any reason of the ability of
 the myocardium (the heart muscle) to contract, leading to heart failure
 (when the heart can't pump enough blood flow to meet body’s needs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\change_deleted 361918700 1469125083
Congenital heart defects
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\change_deleted 361918700 1469125083
Heart valve disease: when one or more valves don’t work properly.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\change_deleted 361918700 1469125083
Pericarditis: inflammation of the pericardium (the fibrous layer surrounding
 the heart)
\change_unchanged

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The focus of the analysis will be on reading the information of the the
 wave P, complex QRS and wave T.
 Those waves generate a pattern that can be automatically analysed by a
 computerized method to recognize the CVDs mentioned above.
 A recognition of this pattern, has been developed in an open software called
 ECG-KIT.
 Through this document, it is going to be explained how this software is
 going to help in the ecg analysis not only doctors but also reseachers
 and people without experiencie in the subject.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Software
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The output of the ECG must be stored in digital file to be the input of
 the ECG-KIT Application.
 Different formats will be accepted such as MIT, ISHNE, AHA, HES, MAT and
 lengths, from seconds to days.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.1 Architecture 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Results
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Acknowledgments
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
